The English Selfie site was built to be a resource for English-language learners (ELLs) from a variety of language backgrounds. Upon entering the site, an ELL user is asked to input his/her native language, which is used throughout the site to perform Yandex Translation API-powered translations from English to the user's native language. The user is also prompted to identify as a beginner, intermediate or advanced learner in order to direct him/her to the appropriate proficiency page. On the selected proficiency page, the user can see links that take them to modules organized by communicative task (i.e., discussing one's job). Once a user has selected a module to study, the user is directed to a page that contains a series of videos recorded by native speakers of English. These videos are transcribed, and content-vocabulary is highlight and translated to the user's native language on hover. Users have the ability to expand a vocabulary/grammar description meant to help them understand the speakers' language. At the bottom of these module pages, users can elect to take a quiz. This quiz randomly selects vocabulary from that highlighted on the corresponding module page, and using the Yandex Translation API, asks users to correctly choose a translation of one of these vocabulary words.

The site was styled heavily with Bootstrap, and the functionality executed with JavaScript. Structure and design was mostly completed on the first day of work, and then throughout the rest of the week, scripted functionality was completed. Functions were mostly completed in an order that mirrors how users interact with the site; for example, since user's are asked for their native language on the landing page, one of the earliest scripts written was that which saves this variable to Local Storage. Responsive design was implemented during the final stage of the project, and a couple next steps are to implement SASS for styling and fill out the specific modules with more videos.
